Richard Jewell clearly points the finger at the FBI and the media for their rush to judgment and the public skewering that came with it, so this could be a statement against these institutions. But by never taking the story beyond a single federal agent and a single reporter, the movie doesn’t place blame with institutions so much as with a pair of bad actors.

Was Richard Jewell an unfortunate man who did nothing wrong but try to save lives, and got screwed for it? Absolutely. But while it may be that this two hour Clint Eastwood movie was simply designed to relay this fact to a generation that may not be familiar with the event, it seems unlikely that the audience being targeted is going to pay much mind to a two-hour Clint Eastwood movie.

Beyond all that, Richard Jewell is at least competently made on a technical level ?— though some editing choices are odd. The main events of the film only cover about three months of time, but certain cuts jump around in a jarring fashion. Minor characters seem to appear with zero introduction, and then disappear just as quickly and are never seen again. Certain arcs, specifically Kathy Scruggs', feel truncated. Either some nuance was lost in the edit, or some character moments are simply unjustified.

The finale is largely anticlimactic and unsatisfying as well, with part of this being because the actual end to the story of Richard Jewell is equally anticlimactic and unsatisfying. But it never feels like that’s part of the point either.

If you’re not familiar with the story of Richard Jewell, than the movie does a successful job of relaying the substance of the events, which is knowledge worth having. However, if you’re looking for anything beyond that, it won’t be found here.

In the end, Richard Jewell the movie has nothing to say beyond the fact that Richard Jewell the man deserved better. You’ll find few if any who will disagree with that sentiment today, and with the film there's even a new layer added. Richard Jewell deserved better than Richard Jewell.